then Solomon determined to build a
temple for the name of the Lord and a
royal house for himself
Solomon selected seventy thousand men to
bear burdens eighty thousand to quarry
stone in the mountains and three
thousand six hundred to oversee them
then Solomon sent to Hiram king of Tyre
as you have dealt with David my father
and sent him Cedars to build himself a
house to dwell in so deal with me behold
I am building a temple for the name of
the Lord my God to dedicate it to him to
burn before him sweet incense for the
continual show bread for the burnt
offerings morning and evening on the
Sabbath's on the new moons and on the
set feasts of the Lord our God this is
an ordinance forever to Israel and the
temple which I built will be great for
our God is greater than all gods
but who is able to build him a temple
since heaven and the heaven of heavens
cannot contain him Who am I then that I
should build him a temple except to burn
sacrifice before him therefore send me
at once a man skillful to work in gold
and silver in bronze and iron in purple
and crimson and blue who has skilled to
engrave with a skilful men who are with
me in Judah and Jerusalem whom David my
father provided also send me cedar and
cypress and algum logs from Lebanon for
I know that your servants have skilled
to cut timber in Lebanon and indeed my
servants will be with your servants to
prepare timber for me in abundance for
the temple which I am about to build
shall be great and wonderful and indeed
I will give to your servants the
woodsmen who cut timber twenty thousand
cause of ground wheat twenty thousand
cause of barley twenty thousand baths of
wine and twenty thousand baths of oil
then hired and king of Tyre answered in
writing which he sent to Solomon because
the Lord loves his people he has made
you king over them blessed be the Lord
God of Israel who made heaven and earth
for he has given King David a wise son
endowed with prudence and understanding
who will build a temple for the Lord and
a royal house for himself and now I have
sent a skilful man endowed with
understanding Purim my master craftsman
the son of a woman of the daughters of
Dan and his father was a man of Tyre
skilled to work in gold and silver
bronze and iron
and would purple and blue fine linen and
crimson and to make any engraving and to
accomplish any plan which may be given
to him with your skillful men and with a
skillful men of my lord David your
father now therefore the wheat the
barley the oil and the wine which my
Lord has spoken of let him send to his
servants and we will cut wood from
Lebanon as much as you need we will
bring it to you in rafts by sea to Joppa
and you will carry it up to Jerusalem
then Solomon numbered all the aliens who
were in the land of Israel after the
census in which David his father had
numbered them and they were found to be
150 3600 and he made seventy thousand of
them bearers of burdens eighty thousand
stone cutters in the mountain and three
thousand six hundred overseers to make
the people work